            by Carl Chudyk




GUIDE TO THE SECTOR
                             1
COMPONENTS:              WELCOME TO IMPULSE
- 108 Action Cards
- 1 Sector Core Card
- 1 Colorblind Aid
- 2 General References
- 78 Ships (13 per
color)
- 6 Command Centers
- 1 Space Prestige       OBJECTIVE: In Impulse, each player commands a fleet
Board                    of Transports and Cruisers, exploring an untouched
- 1 Impulse marker       sector of the galaxy. Through mining, research, and
- 1 Invisible Space      combat, plus taking advantage of the features native to
Fiend                    the sector, you seek to earn enough Space Prestige to
                         convince the native populations to join your interstellar
                         federation. Twenty prestige, to be exact. Aliens of this
                         region roughly translate prestige as “points.”
2
                 EXECUTE                                   SABOTAGE




       Execute one size 22 card from your hand    Sabotage a Transport ﬂeet with 32 bombs.
           OR Execute one of your techs.




CARDS:
There are 108 Action Cards in Impulse. Each has an action type at its top and
an effect at the bottom. Every card has a color (Red, Blue, Green, or Yellow) and
a size (1, 2, 3), determined by the number of icons on the left. Each card has six
gates along its edges, which connect to other cards in the Sector Map.

          The Sector Core card is not shuffled into the deck with the other
          cards. It forms the center of the Sector Map. The Colorblind Aid
        and two General References should also be removed before play.
                                                                                             3
CHOOSING A
RACE:                                         SETUP
The six available races   Each player chooses a race and takes its Command
in Impulse each have      Center card and all the ship tokens of one color.
a unique starting
Tech, the one on the
                          Place 1 of your ships on the Space Prestige board’s 0.
bottom right of their
                          Shuffle and deal out cards face-down to form the Sector
Command Center.
                          Map as shown on the next page, with the Sector Core
These provide you         card at its center.
with a bit of direction
to start the game,        Draw 5 cards plus the card on your Home location, and
but will eventually       choose one of the six to place face-up there. Then place
be covered up by the      3 ships on your Home: 2 ships on the card standing up
Research action.          (Transports), and1 ship on its side on the gate facing the
                          Sector Core (a Cruiser).
4
                                                                          COMMAND


     456                                                                                                      3456
                                                                   Command a 11 ship fleet for two moves.




                     DRAW                       SECTOR CORE




             Draw one card from the deck.         Score 1 point.
         Then draw 11r/y
                      G Y card from the deck.




 2356                                                                                                           26

                                                                             RESEARCH


      456                                                                                                     3456
                                                                   Research two size 1 cards from the deck.




SETUP EXAMPLE
A 3-player setup is shown above, after initial ship placement.
The colored numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 show where Home locations
are for a game with that number of players.
                                                                                                                     5
CARD SIZE:
The “Size” of a card is
                                        CARDS/MAP
determined by the
                            ACTION TYPE: Shows what kind of action this card
number of icons on
                            contains. There are 10 different action types, each of
its left side. Size 2 and
size 3 cards have more      which are explained on pages 28 to 38.
powerful action texts.
                            SIZE ICONS: Shows a card’s size. A card can be size
Since cards on the          1, 2, or 3. Action cards with larger sizes have more
Sector Map and the          powerful abilities.
Impulse get activated
by your opponents,          EFFECT: The specific action for this card. Many
you should be careful       different effects exist within each type of action.
what you share!             Every effect contains a number in a box. This value
                            can be boosted when the card is used (page 22).


6
            EXECUTE                                                COMMA




  Execute one size 22 card from your hand                    Command 1 transpor
      OR Execute one of your techs.




GATES: Adjacent cards form gates on the Sector Map. A
pair of connectors like these is considered one gate. A fleet of
Cruisers on a gate patrols both adjacent cards.
                                                                       7
TEAM RULES +
SETUP:
In 4- or 6-player
games, you can play
in teams of 2 or 3
players.
                                             VS
                         You cannot fight battles against your teammates. You
Your Home locations      can move through friendly Cruisers and cards they
and seating should be
                         patrol, but never end an action with your Cruisers and
chosen so that you are
opposite from your
                         an ally’s on the same gate.
teammates in both
turn order and board     Your points are all tracked individually. Your team
position.                wins together if any player on the team reaches 20
                         points. Each team has its own Impulse, populated
                         only by the cards its members play.
8
   You are permitted to discuss openly what’s in your hand and what you
   will play as long as all players can hear you. All other rules remain the
same in a team game. Some of the team rules refer to concepts explained
later in the rulebook.




                                                                          9
SHARING:
Remember that even
                                    THE IMPULSE
though the cards you
                         The Impulse determines what actions you are able to
place on the Impulse
                         perform on your turn. It is a line of cards common to all
might be used by
other players, you       players that is placed next to the Space Prestige Board
can probably use         and the deck. On your turn, you will add a card to the
them best!               Impulse and then perform all of the actions in order. At
                         the end of your turn, the oldest card will be removed
Sometimes it is okay     from the Impulse.
to put a strong card
out, especially if it    Essentially, the Impulse is a conveyor belt of actions that
needs a color that you   everyone shares. New cards are always added to the
have in your hand.
                         bottom, and trimmed cards are removed from the top.
Your opponents
might not have any!      Use the Impulse marker to show which card is currently
                         being used.
10
                                                                  RESEARCH




                                                         Research two size 1 cards from the deck.




                                                                  SABOTAGE




     trimmed next.
                                                         Sabotage a transport fleet with 2 bombs.




                                                                       MINE




                                                             Mine 11 YR card from your hand.
                                                                                                    Use cards in order from top to bottom -->




                                                                      TRADE
     Research, the oldest card on the Impulse, will be




                                                             Trade 11 YB card from your hand.
11
ACTIONS ARE
OPTIONAL:                          TURN STRUCTURE
You can always ignore       Each turn consists of several steps, done in order:
part or all of any action
card you use.
                            1. Add a card to the Impulse from your hand.
If you want to use an       2. Use one of your two Techs.
action but can only do
                            3. Use each Impulse card, in order from left to right.
part of it, do as much
as you can.                 4. Use your Plan. You may choose to delay if it has
                            fewer than 4 cards. Discard your entire Plan if used.
Adding a card to the
Impulse is not optional.    5. Score 1 point for each of your fleets that patrols
If your hand is empty       the Sector Core.
to start your turn, skip    6. Draw 2 cards, and trim the Impulse to 3 cards.
that step.
                            Shuffle the discards into the deck if it is empty.
12
                          When scoring points for the
SECTOR CORE               Sector Core, the size of each
                          fleet is irrelevant, score points
                          only for the number of gates
                          you have Cruisers on.

                          At the end of your turn, play
  Score 1 point.
                          passes clockwise to the next
                          player.




 In this example, BLUE would score 1 point.

                                                              13
AGGRESSION IS
YOUR FRIEND:                               SCORING
Combat is a great way       There are several ways to score points in Impulse.
to score points, and a
good way to catch up
                            1. COMBAT
when behind.
                            Each ship you destroy gains you 1 point, whether
The attacker gets an        destroyed in battle or with a Sabotage action.
advantage when              Winning a battle is worth 1 additional point.
fighting (seeing number
of reinforcements first),   2. SECTOR CORE
so use it!
                            Each turn, you will gain 1 point for every Cruiser
                            fleet you have that patrols the Sector Core. You can
                            also activate the Sector Core with your Transports,
                            and you can choose which color of mineral to use to
                            boost it each time you activate it.
14
3. ACTIONS
The Trade and Refine actions both allow you to sell your cards for points.
Trade uses cards in your hand, and Refine uses mineral cards that you’ve
gathered with the Mine action.
                                                                             A mixture of poin
     SPACE PRESTIGE BOARD                                                    sources is key to victory,
     +1 per icon on a Traded card, +1 or more for Refining a card.
     +1 per battle won, +1 per ship destroyed (Battle, Sabotage, or Move).
     +1 per Sector Core gate controlled at end of turn.                      but occasionally a sharp
     +1 or more for activating Sector Core with transports.
                                                                             focus on one can prove
                           9                   10                            successful.
                                                                     20
     0                     8                   11
                                                                             Points are tracked on the
                           7                   12                     19
                                                                             Space Prestige Board.
     1                     6                   13                     18
     2                     5                   14                     17
     3                     4                   15                     16

                                                                                                          15
COUP DE
GRACE:                                    GAME END
By going all out on a       The game ends immediately when any player scores
turn, you can score a       20 points, even if it is not that player’s turn. There is
lot of points to close
                            no way for players to simultaneously score points, so
out a game, especially
if you’re willing to risk
                            a tiebreaker is unnecessary. If there is still a tie, you
combat.                     cheated!

Coasting to 20 is a safe    In a team game, remember that only one player on
strategy, but be wary       the team needs to reach 20 points for the entire
of someone jumping          team to be victorious.
past you to claim the
prize!
                            EMPTY DECK
                            Any time the deck is empty, the discard pile should
                            be shuffled to create a new one.
16
ELIMINATION
If a player has no ships on the board, they are eliminated from play. If all
players but one are eliminated, the game ends. An eliminated player’s
Command Center cards and hands are all discarded.

HAND LIMIT
You can never have more than 10 cards in your hand. Any time you would
draw a card into your hand and you already have 10, do nothing instead.
For example, if you have nine cards at the end of your turn when it is time
to draw two, then draw one card and stop. The only time the hand limit
is ignored is when exploring a new card on the Sector Map with 10 cards
already in your hand. At the end of the explore, you will be back down to
10.




                                                                               17
COMMAND
CENTER TIP:                          COMMAND CENTER
It might be tempting to     Your Command Center is both your reference card and
spend all your efforts      where all your accumulated action cards of various types will
building up a massive       live during the game. Cards on your Command Center are
pile of minerals and a
                            not part of your hand, and therefore do not count against
large plan, don’t forget
that your opponents         your hand limit. There is no limit to the number of cards that
only need 20 points to      can be Minerals or in your Plan. Techs are limited to the two
win!                        slots available.

You’ll look silly if your   If possible, your Command Center should be near your
war is lost before you      Home location, for ease of play. The only difference
fire a single shot.
                            between the different Command Centers is their race
                            names and their unique Tech.

18
                                                                        TRIANGULUMNISTS
         RESEARCH
               RESEARCH
                      EXECUTE                                                                                                                                                      DRAW



                                      MINERALS
                                                                                      TURN PHASES
                                                            1. Add a card to the Impulse.          4. Use or delay your Plan.




                                                 +1 PER
                                                            2. Use one of your techs.              5. Score Sector Core points.




                                                                                                                                                               PLAN
                                                                                                                                          CANNOT DELAY IF 4+
                                                            3. Use Impulse cards, in order.        6. Draw two, trim Impulse.                                                       MINE
                                                                                      BATTLE RULES
                                                       1. Defender places reinforcements face down, then attacker.
                           Research 11 RY card
                               theExecute
                                                   1 card
                                          one size 2   2. Reveal them.
                                                           from the deckTo count, each must match (size+color) a card                                                     Draw one card from the deck.
Research two size 1 cards from     deck.
                            from yourORhand.
                                          Execute one of your techs.
                                                       in your Plan, Impulse, or Techs. Return bluffs to your hand.                                                             EXECUTE
                                                                                                                                                                      Then draw 11r/y
                                                                                                                                                                                   G Y card from the deck.

                                                       3. Draw one card per cruiser in fight, add to reinforcements.
                                                       4. Most total icons wins, all losing ships destroyed. Score 1 Prestige
                                                       for winning a battle, +1 per ship destroyed.                                                                   Mine two size 1 cards from your hand.




                                                          RESEARCH
                                                          BASIC TECH                                                BASIC TECH
                                                                                                                                                                      Execute one size 21 card from your hand
                                                                                                                                                                          OR Execute one of your techs.


                                          Discard a card in order to either:
                                                                                                             Build a cruiser at home on an edge
                                          Command one fleet for one move
                                                                                                             that touches an unexplored card.
                                          OR Build one ship at home.


                                       Research two size 1 cards from the deck.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                19
REPLACING                 TECHS
TECHS:                    Your Command Center has two slots for Techs. The
                          Research action will allow you to upgrade them.
Having a good Tech        Before executing the Impulse on your turn, you may
to use every turn (or     use one of your two Techs. You begin with 2 Basic
a good pair to choose     Techs, one that is common to all races and one that
from) is important.
                          is specific to yours.
Your starting Techs are
great at the beginning    MINERALS
of the game, but don’t    The Mine action will allow you to turn cards into
hesitate to replace       mineral cards, tucked under the left side of your
them with better          Command Center. Each icon on a mineral card
options when you          becomes a gem, which will help boost actions of
have the chance.          that color. Gems can be turned into many points
                          via the Refine action.

20
PLAN
The right side of your Command Center is your Plan, which is populated
by the Plan action. Your Plan is like your own personal Impulse, which
can be stored up and used on a turn when you’re ready. After using
cards from the Impulse on your turn, you may use your Plan. If you do,
perform each card in it in order, and then discard the entire Plan. As
with Impulse cards, you can skip individual actions, but they are still
discarded at the end. If your Plan has four or more cards in it, you must
use it at the end of your turn. The contents of your Plan are public.




                                                                            21
BOOSTING:
Boosting your actions
                                        ACTIONS
is one of the most
                         Each turn you will perform the action cards on the
important mechanics
to master in Impulse.
                         Impulse, and possibly additional actions from your
                         Command Center, your hand, or the Sector Map.
Moving Transports in     There are 10 different action types, all explained on
groups of two early in   the following pages. Each action card’s text contains
the game will allow      a boxed number that can be boosted.
you to do stronger
things, and gaining      Actions are always optional, and a number on an
some minerals is a
                         action card is always “up to”. A card allowing you to
priority!
                         “Mine two size [3] cards” could also be used to mine
                         size 1 or 2 cards.


22
BOOSTING
You can power up any action by boosting the boxed number on a card in
one of two ways. First, if you have Mineral cards in your Command Center
matching the color of the action card, the number is boosted by 1 for every
2 gems you have of that color. These are not spent; you keep them.

Second, if the action is a card on the Sector Map, you can activate it with a
Command action by moving Transports onto it. At the end of the action,
you count each Transport you just moved onto the card (previously present
Transports are ignored!) as 1 matching gem.

So if you moved onto a red card with 3 of your Transports, and you also
have 1 red gem in your Minerals, you would boost its boxed number by 2.




                                                                                23
CHANCE:                   FROM THE DECK
                          Many cards instruct you to do something “from the
When drawing from         deck”. For example: “Mine two size [2] cards from
the deck, you might       the deck.” This means you have two chances to
want to know what the
                          draw a card of the appropriate type from the deck.
chances are of drawing
a certain type of card.
                          Reveal cards from the deck one at a time, checking
                          each to see if it satisfies the condition. If it does,
Half the deck is size     perform the action on it. Otherwise, discard it. Such
1 cards, about a third    cards are revealed to everyone as they are drawn.
is size 2, and about a
sixth is size 3.          Remember that size requirements are always inclusive
                          of lower values. In this example, if you revealed a size
There are 27 cards of
                          3 Execute and a size 1 Command, you would place the
each color in the deck.
                          Command card in your Minerals and discard the Execute.


24
                        These symbols on certain action cards indicate
                       a card of the appropriate color. As with the size
  R G B Y              requirement, if a non-matching card is drawn, it
                       would be discarded.


FROM YOUR HAND
Other action cards will use cards in your         COLOR REFERENCE
hand. Remember that all actions are
optional, and you are never required to            Blue       Red
spend cards from your hand in this way.
Cards on your Command Center do not                Yellow     Green
count as part of your hand.



                                                                           25
DEFINITIONS:
Ship - Any ship token
                                             SHIPS
on the Sector Map.
                          The Command action will allow you to move your
Cruiser - Any ship on a
                          ships on the Sector Map. You have a total of 12 ship
gate.                     tokens that you can have in play, mixed between
                          Transports and Cruisers depending on where they
Transport - Any ship on   are located. Ships never switch type while in play.
the center of a card.
                          Examples for a single move are shown on the right.
Fleet - A group of one    Transports move from one card through a gate to an
or more Transports
                          adjacent card. Cruisers move from one gate, through
on the same card, or
Cruisers on the same      a card to another gate on that card. Cruisers cannot
gate.                     be on a lone connector that touches the edge of the
                          Sector Map.

26
                                                                                                                           EXECUTE




  Example of
                                                                                                                                  1 card from the deck
                                                                                                                 Execute one size 2
                                                                                                                     OR Execute one of your techs.




Transport move                                                                           RESEARCH
 (card to card)
                                                                                Research two size 1 cards from the deck.




                                                  EXECUTE




                                                                                                                      Example of
                                                         1 card from the deck
                                        Execute one size 2
                                            OR Execute one of your techs.




                                                                                                                     Cruiser move
                RESEARCH
                                                                                                                     (gate to gate)
       Research two size 1 cards from the deck.




                                                                                                                                                         27
SECTOR CORE:
Transports can activate
                                   ACTION TYPES
the Sector Core to
                          COMMAND
score points. You can
choose what color it
                          Command actions allow you to move your ships on
counts as each time       the Sector Map.
you move there, and
match mineral cards       Moving Transports allows you to use actions from
accordingly.              cards on the Sector Map. After the Command action,
                          use the card they ended their movement on before
Remember that if any      continuing with the next action on the Impulse. You
opponent patrols the
                          cannot activate the card they started their movement
Sector Core, you can’t
move Transports there.    on. Transports that just moved each count as a bonus
                          mineral for the purpose of boosting that action card.


28
Moving Cruisers allows you to attack enemy ships and to patrol cards.
A Cruiser fleet that moves through a card containing enemy Transports
destroys them all, scoring 1 point apiece. However, if that movement re-
sults in a battle with enemy Cruisers, the Transports are only destroyed
if you win the battle. A Cruiser fleet that moves onto a gate containing
enemy Cruisers starts a battle. (See page 34)

You occupy any card where you have a Transport.

You patrol a card if you have a Cruiser on any gate touching it. Enemy
Transports may not move onto a card you patrol. Enemy Cruisers cannot
move through cards you patrol except to start a battle. If multiple players
patrol the same card, the player moving ships can choose who to fight.




                                                                              29
SPACE URBAN                EXPLORING
PLANNING:                  If you move your ships onto or through a face-
                           down card, you explore it. To explore a card, take it
You have control over      into your hand, then place a card from your hand
how the Sector Map         (possibly the one you picked up) face-up where it
develops around you,       was. You can temporarily exceed the hand limit
as long as you get
                           while exploring. If you explore multiple cards during
there first!
                           one movement, explore them one at a time. Note
You have to weigh the      that you must declare your entire movement before
benefits of moving         exploring any cards.
out quickly before you
have many options          When moving a Transport fleet to explore, the card
in your hand versus        they end their movement on will be activated
the ability to choose
                           immediately.
carefully if you wait to
draw cards.

30
During any movement, your ships stick together. When you move a 3
Cruiser fleet, you cannot send two in one direction and the last in another.
When starting a movement, however, you are not obligated to take the
entire fleet at a location. For example, if you have 4 Cruisers on a gate and
you use an action allowing you to move 1 fleet, you could take just three
and leave the last to defend the gate.

Several Command cards contain text like “Command two fleets for [2] moves
apiece. Each must move to the same card.” If moving Transports, all move
together and activate the card once. If moving Cruisers, each fleet could move
to a different gate attached to that card, possibly starting multiple battles. You
could also move one Transport fleet and one Cruiser fleet. You cannot move
the same fleet twice with these cards.




                                                                                     31
DEFENDING                          ILLEGAL MOVES
TERRITORY:
                                                                EXECUTE                                                             TRADE
Powerful cards can
wind up on the Sector
Map, and you don’t                                                      1 card from the deck
                                                       Execute one size 2
                                                           OR Execute one of your techs.
                                                                                                                        Trade 1 size three card from your hand.


want your opponents
to use them!
                                 RESEARCH                                                          REFINE

Blockading them with
a patrolling Cruiser             Research 11 RY card                                   Refine one 1G mineral card for 11 point

fleet is a great way              from your hand.                                                    per gem.




to shut down an
opponent’s engine.
                         Both of these moves are illegal. Since Yellow patrols
Destroying their ships   the Trade card, Red cannot move a Transport there.
also works.              Similarly, the Cruiser cannot move through the Refine
                         card except to start a battle.
32
                        LEGAL MOVES
                                                EXECUTE                                                             TRADE




                                                        1 card from the deck
                                       Execute one size 2                                               Trade 1 size three card from your hand.
                                           OR Execute one of your techs.




                 RESEARCH                                                          REFINE




                 Research 11 RY card                                   Refine one 1G mineral card for 11 point
                  from your hand.                                                    per gem.




These moves are both legal. If Red moved a Transport to the Research
card, they would be able to use the card’s action text. The Cruiser would
start a battle against Yellow.
                                                                                                                                                  33
REINFORCING:
Using reinforcements
                                             BATTLES
effectively is critical to
                             A battle occurs when two Cruiser fleets wind up on
victory. Getting size 2
and 3 cards into your
                             the same gate. Combat is resolved by both players
Plan or Techs can help       drawing a card from the deck for each Cruiser, and
you in combat.               adding up the icons on all cards drawn. Each side can
                             also add reinforcement cards from their hand.
Always keep in mind
your cards in hand as        A card in hand can be a reinforcement if it matches
potential reinforce-         both the size and color a card on the Impulse, your
ments when deciding
                             Plan, or either of your Techs (not Minerals).
what to put on the
Impulse or the Sector
Map!                         The defending player places any number of cards
                             face-down in front of them, followed by the attacker.

34
All are revealed, and any “bluff” cards (ones that do not match) are returned
to that player’s hand. Then each player adds 1 card per Cruiser to their
reinforcements. The player with more total icons (defender in a tie) is the
winner. The entire losing fleet is destroyed, and the winner scores 1 point
for winning, plus 1 additional point per ship destroyed. All the cards used
in the battle are then discarded.

A battle ends a fleet’s movement. If a Command card allows you to move
multiple fleets, they can all converge for one battle.




                                                                                35
SABOTAGE:                 RESEARCH
                          Research allows you to upgrade the Techs on your
Since the deck is 50%     player board, giving you an action each turn that you
size 1 cards, you can     do not have to share with opponents. Your Techs go
roughly count on
                          on your Command Center, overlaying one of the two
one out of every two
bombs connecting.         Basic Techs printed on it. Discard Techs when replaced.
                          Once covered up, Basic Techs are gone!
Since you are not
particularly lucky, you   EXECUTE
should instead count      Execute will let you perform an Action Card’s text once
on roughly one out        and then discard it without placing it on the Impulse
of every four bombs
                          to be shared with others. Alternately, you can activate
connecting.
                          one of your Techs.




36
BUILD
Build actions construct new ships. The Build card will specify where you
can build your ships and whether they are Cruisers or Transports. Some
will allow you to build either type. You are limited to 12 ships, and if you
run out you cannot build additional ships until some are destroyed. You
cannot voluntarily destroy your own ships. Ships can be built on enemy
patrolled cards, but you cannot build a Cruiser on a gate containing
another player’s Cruisers.

SABOTAGE
Sabotage allows you to destroy enemy ships without fighting them head-
on. You can only Sabotage ships on cards that you patrol with Cruisers or
occupy with Transports. For each bomb targeting a fleet, reveal 1 card from
the deck. For each size 2+ card revealed, destroy 1 ship in that fleet, and
score a point. Do not score points for overkill. For example: 4 hits on a
2-ship fleet scores 2 points, not 4.
                                                                               37
PLAN TIMING:              PLAN
                          The Plan action adds cards to the end of your Command
Having a good Plan        Center’s Plan. Plan cards are ordered, much like the
on your Command           Impulse. After using all the cards on the Impulse, you
Center is good
                          have the option to use or delay your Plan. If you use
for many reasons
(especially combat        it, you use each card in your Plan, and then discard it.
reinforcements!), so      You cannot delay your Plan if it has at least 4 cards. If
waiting to use it isn’t   you are using your Plan and are required to add more
a bad idea.               cards to it, they go into a new Plan that can be used on
                          your next turn.
A big Plan / full
hand can also be a
                          DRAW
deterrent to being
attacked.                 Draw allows you to take cards into your hand directly
                          from the deck. Remember that you have a limit of 10
                          cards in hand, and once reached no additional cards
                          may be drawn.
38
TRADE
Trade allows you to discard cards from your hand or the deck to score
points. A traded card is worth points equal to its size.

MINE
Mine allows you to add cards to the Minerals section of your Command
Center. These will allow you to boost your future actions of matching color.
Tuck them under your Command Center so only the gems are showing.

REFINE
Refine allows you to convert Mineral cards from your Command Center into
many points. Refining a card sends it to the discard pile, which means it will
no longer boost actions. Note that the boost is calculated before discarding
the card -- you don’t lose the bonus mid-action if the gems match the color
of the Refine card.

                                                                                 39
BGG ROCKS:
As some of you are no
                                         CREDITS
doubt aware, we beta
                          Impulse © 2014 Asmadi Games
test and proofread
our rulebooks with
BoardGameGeek.            Designed by Carl Chudyk
It is immensely useful,   Developed by Chris Cieslik
and thanks again to       Art and Design by Alanna Cervenak, Cara Judd
everyone who helped!
                          Playtesting: Shuai Li Fang, Aerjen Tamminga, Evan
We encourage you          Dunn, Daniel Hutchins, Andy Latto, Anthony Rubbo,
to support the site if
                          Christopher Yoder, Rafał Kruczek, Ari Iwan, Timothy
you don’t already, and
come to BGGCon,           Iwan, Dave Kudzma, Jonathan Harrison, everyone from
because it is awesome.    the Beta program, folks from the Boston Festival of
                          Indie Games, anyone who joined us in the Department
                          of Fun at Gen Con, and my local game nights!
40
For rules or other questions, check the BoardGameGeek forums for
Impulse, visit our website at AsmadiGames.com, or contact us through
email at AsmadiGames@gmail.com




                                     FOLLOW US AT
                                     www.facebook.com/AsmadiGames
                                     www.twitter.com/AsmadiGames




                                                                       41
IF IN DOUBT:
In general, if you can’t
                                                      FAQ
do an entire thing in      Q: What if there is no discard pile and the deck is empty?
Impulse, do as much        A: In this rare scenario, all players discard two cards from their
as you can and ignore      hand to form a new deck.
the rest.
                           Q: Can I move Transports onto a card with enemy Transports?
                           A: Yes, as long as no enemy Cruisers patrol that card.

                           Q: Can I patrol an enemy Home with a Cruiser?
                           A: Yes. This has no effect other than making their life difficult.

                           Q: I created an infinite loop!
                           A: Yes, you can move Transports back and forth between two
                           Command cards. You should probably stop eventually.



42
Q: What does “The last card on the impulse” mean on my Basic Tech?
A: These refer to the bottom card, the one most recently played.

Q: My Build card allows me to build more ships than I have available.
   What do I do?
A: Remember that any part of an action is optional! So you can always choose which
ships to build out of the options available.

Q: My opponent just scored 12 points on a Refine action!
    Is that supposed to happen?
A: Yep! Impulse is not meant to be a long drawn out game -- if you don’t move in on
an opponent amassing Mineral cards for a big sale, don’t expect to win by claiming 1
or 2 points a turn at the Sector Core.

Q: If I add matching gems during a Mine action, do I boost the rest of it?
A: No. The level of a boost is calculated before the action begins.



                                                                                       43
   One giant leap.




©Asmadi Games, 2014
