Impulse rules summary
Object: Each player commands a fleet of transports and cruisers that are exploring a
sector of the galaxy. Through mining, research, and combat, players earn Space
Prestige points. The winner is the first player to gain 20 points.

Setup:
1. Each player chooses a race (or is given one randomly) and takes its Command
   Center card and all the ships of a chosen color.
2. Each player places one ship in the “0” space on the Space Prestige Board.
3. Place the Sector Core card in the middle of the table. Shuffle the rest of the cards
   and lay cards out face down according to page 5 of the rulebook to create the Sector
   Map.
4. Deal 5 cards to each player.
5. Each player chooses a home card according to the number of players (see page 5 of
   the rulebook).
6. Take your home card into your hand, choose a card from your hand, and place it face
   up in the home card spot (you may choose the original home card or a different
   card).
7. Place two transports (standing up) on your home card and one cruiser on your home
   card’s gate facing the Sector Core.
8. Randomly determine the start player.

Cards: Each card has an Action Type on the top, an Effect on the bottom, a color, a
Size (in 1, 2, or 3 icons), and six gates along the edges.
If the draw deck ever becomes depleted, shuffle the discard pile to form a new deck.
You can never have more than 10 cards in your hand (e.g., if you have 9 cards at the end
of your turn, you only draw 1 card in Phase 6). The only exception is if you had 10
cards when exploring a new card, you will take that card into your hand as per normal.
All actions (and parts of actions) on cards are optional and may be skipped. Phase 1 is
the only mandatory element in the game.
Actions that instruct you to do something “from the deck” mean that you reveal cards
from the top of the deck one at a time, checking each to see if it satisfies the condition.
If it does, perform that action. If not, discard it.
There are 27 cards of each color in the deck. Just over half are Size 1, about a third are
Size 2, and about a sixth are Size 3. The 108 cards are: 27 Command, 12 Build, 12
Mine, 11 Research, 11 Trade, 9 Draw, 8 Plan, 6 Execute, 6 Refine, and 6 Sabotage.

Numbers and Boosting: All numbers on a card are “up to”. Any number on a card can
be reduced (e.g., if instructed to mine two size [3] cards, you could also use it to mine
size 1 or 2 cards).
The number in the white box in every card’s Effect may be boosted by one or a
combination of both of the following:
   If you have Mineral cards in your Command Center matching the color of the
      action card, the number is boosted by 1 for every 2 gems you have of that color.
      The gems are not spent, you keep them.
   If the action is on a card on the map, you also count each transport that activated
      it with a Command action as 1 matching gem.
The action on the Sector Core may be boosted by a color of your choice.

Player Turns: Each player turn has the following 6 phases:

Phase 1 – Add a card to the Impulse: You must place one card from your hand onto
the Impulse next to the map below the last card placed on the Impulse. If your hand is
empty, skip this phase.

Phase 2 – Use one of your Techs: Use one of the two techs on your Command Center.
Everyone starts with a common Basic Tech on the left side and a unique Basic Tech on
the right.

Phase 3 – Use Impulse cards, in order: You may use each card in the Impulse, in
order starting at the top.
Use the Impulse marker to show which card is currently being used.

Phase 4 – Use or delay your Plan: You may use the card(s) in your Plan (in order),
then discard all of the cards even if you did not use them all. You can delay using your
Plan until a future turn unless it has 4 or more cards in it (in which case you must use
your Plan). If using your Plan causes more cards to be added, they go into a new Plan.

Phase 5 – Score Sector Core points: Score 1 point for each cruiser fleet you have on a
gate patrolling the Sector Core. The number of ships in a fleet is irrelevant.

Phase 6 – Draw two, trim Impulse: Draw 2 cards and trim the Impulse down to 3
cards by discarding the top card.

Command: A ship is any ship on the Sector Map.
A cruiser is any ship on a gate.
A transport is any ship on the center of a card.
You occupy any card where you have a transport.
You patrol a card if you have a cruiser on any of the card’s gates.
A fleet is one or more transports on the same card or one or more cruisers on the same
gate.
A fleet of cruisers on a gate patrols both adjacent cards.
One move for a transport is from one card through a gate to an adjacent card.
One move for a cruiser is from one gate through one of the two cards that it patrols to
another gate on that card. Cruisers cannot be on a gate that touches the edge of the
Sector Map.
If a card allows you to move a fleet, you can leave one or more ships behind if desired.
However, all of the moving ships must move to the same destination.
If you move a ship onto or through a face down card, you explore it (done as per step 6
under Setup). If your ship moves through multiple face down cards, explore them one
by one. Note that you must declare your entire move before exploring any cards.
A transport cannot move to a card patrolled by an enemy cruiser but can enter an
unpatrolled card that is occupied by enemy transports.
A cruiser cannot move through a card patrolled by an enemy cruiser, except to start a
battle by landing on one of the gates patrolled by an enemy cruiser(s).
A cruiser that moves through a card containing enemy transports destroys them (1 point
each) unless the move results in a battle (because the card was patrolled). In that case
the transports are only destroyed if the cruiser won the battle.
When a transport ends its movement, it activates the card it landed on [EXC: it cannot
activate the card that it started its action on].
If a Command card allows you to move multiple fleets, all of the fleets must move to
the same card. They can converge for one battle. If moving transports, they activate the
card once after completing their moves. If moving cruisers, each fleet could move to a
different gate on the card, possibly starting multiple battles. You could also move one
transport fleet and one cruiser fleet. But you cannot move the same fleet twice with
these cards.
Battle
    1. The defender may play reinforcements by placing any number of cards from his
       hand face down in front of him. Only cards that match (in both size and color)
       cards in the Impulse, his Techs, and cards in his Plan will end up counting. Cards
       that don’t match can be placed face down (as a bluff).
    2. The attacker may play reinforcements in the same manner.
    3. All reinforcements are revealed and any bluff cards are returned to their owners’
       hands.
    4. Each player draws one card for each cruiser he has in the battle and adds them to
       his reinforcements.
    5. The side with the most total icons on their reinforcement cards wins. The
       defender wins if tied.
    6. Return all of the losing ships to their owner’s stock.
    7. The winner gains 1 point for winning the battle, plus 1 point per ship destroyed.
    8. Discard all reinforcement cards.
A battle ends a ship’s movement.
Research: Place a specified card onto your Command Center, covering up one of your
Basic Techs or replacing a card researched previously (which gets discarded).

Build: Specifies where and what can be built. You are limited to 12 ships. You cannot
voluntarily destroy one of your ships. You can build ships on enemy-patrolled cards but
you can’t build a cruiser on an enemy-occupied gate.

Execute: Perform a card action, then discard it, or activate one of your Techs.

Sabotage: Target the specified fleet on a card that you patrol with cruisers or occupy
with transports.
For each “bomb”, reveal one card from the deck. For each size 2 or 3 card revealed,
destroy one ship in that fleet and score 1 point (up to the number of ships in the fleet).
Reveal and discard a card for each “bomb”, even if more hits are scored than available
targets.

Plan: Add cards to the Plan side of your Command Center, placing them face up as if
into your own private Impulse.

Draw: Draw cards as specified, but no more than up to your hand size of 10 cards.

Trade: Discard cards as specified to gain points equal to their size.

Mine: Tuck cards under the Minerals side of your Command Center (so only the gems
are showing) to use for boosting and refining.

Refine: Discard cards from your Minerals to gain points as specified. Note that any
boost from the cards still counts before they are refined.

Game End: The game ends immediately when a player scores his 20th Space Prestige
point, even if it is not his turn.
If a player ever has no ships on the map, he is eliminated from the game.

Team Rules: In four or six player games, you can play in teams of two or three.
Alternate the seating of the teams around the table so that teammates are sitting opposite
each other.
You cannot fight your teammates, nor can your cruisers patrol the same gate at the same
time. You can move through friendly cruisers and cards they patrol.
Each team has its own Impulse, populated only by the cards its members play.
All discussion between teammates must be open (i.e., all players can hear it).
Points are still tracked per player. Your team wins if any player on the team reaches 20.
